# Pet Health Care App
Pets are sensitive and needy creatures. They need care in many areas, and it can be  challenging to follow this care. Especially when it comes to health, consideration is both much more important and much more difficult. It is important to vaccinate pets on time. When sick, pets must find the nearest veterinarian and be treated immediately. The pet’s past examination and vaccination records must be accessed so that the veterinarian, who is visited for the first time, does not make a wrong diagnosis and does not administer medication or vaccination. In this project, a mobile application has been created that will solve all crucial issues. While this application was being made, the data was saved in Firebase Firestore Database.

## Implementation

This chapter will give information about the application and how it is written. While the application was being written, Firebase’s Firestore Database SDK was mainly used. In addition, Firebase’s authentication and storage SDKs are also used. This application consists of 30 Java classes and 31 XML files. Operations that require too many lines of code to be written under normal conditions can be done in a few lines thanks to Firebase SDKs. This makes the process to be done faster and more efficient.

### Application

The structure of the Firebase Firestore Database is a collection of documents and fields in it, and there is no limit to them, they can be created an infinite number of times. Starting from collection in the document, this structure can be recreated, that is, Firestore Database has a nested structure and this makes the database more useful. There is a HashMap structure (“key”,” value”) in the fields inside the documents, so when creating a new document, the data is thrown into a HashMap, and that HashMap is added directly to the required part. If information is to be retrieved from the Database, that information is obtained by using the ”key”. Writing and importing data to the database can be done much more easily thanks to the Firestore SDK’s and can be done in different ways. This is one of the advantageous aspects of Firebase.

In the menu of the Vet Page, there is a UpLoadImage section for Vet to determine his profile photo. Here, permission is first requested to select a photo from the gallery, and after the permission is obtained, the photo is selected and saved. In the Vet Profile section, the profile photo is updated. FirebaseStorage SDK and Picasso’s libraries were used to perform these operations. Large data such as photos and videos cannot be entered into Firestore. Firebase Storage is used for such data. The photo selected from the gallery is first saved to Firebase Storage, then the URL of the photo is saved to the vet’s relevant document in Firestore. From here, the relevant Url data is taken and thanks to Picasso, the URL is converted to an image and transferred to the desired imageView.

Data transfer is of great importance in this application. In particular, data transfer was needed many times between Activities. For this, Intent object is used. Another feature of the Intent object is that thanks to this object, it is possible to switch between activities. This object has been preferred and used very often because it provides the opportunity to use these two features at the same time and has a very practical use.

In addition to data transfer, a listing of incoming data was needed in many places. Listing the pet’s information, vaccination, and examination histories can be given as an example. RecyclerView and ListView are used to make these listing operations. ListView is easier to use but more inefficient while recyclerView is more difficult to use and more efficient. ListView is divided into items and is used when clicking on those items is required, while RecyclerView is used when direct viewing of information streams (textViews) arranged one after the other is desired. This is an optional usage.
